# Surfs Up
Our goal was to run a statiscal analysis of climate data for a potential surf shop and to determine if long term weather trends would hinder the business. Additionally we would present our finding to potential investors to show that a weather would not be a limiting factor in the success of a surf shop on Oahu, a Hawaiian island. We used real weather data from Oahu and specifically called out the months of June and December to determine whether the shop would be viable year round or not.
## Features and Data
### Data: hawaii.sqlite
### Software: Jupyter Notebook, Flask, SQLite, Python 3.7.10
## Results
When observing the summary statistics from SurfsUP_Challenge.ipynb for both June and December, we can see we there is very little variance between the two datasets. June offers an average temp of 75 degrees where as December offers an average temp of 71 degrees. In addition, the max temps are only two degrees apart, showing that December still experiences mid 80 degree weather.
## Summary
While temperature is relatively stable throughout the year, it is my reccomendation that weather is not a factor in determining the shops viability as a business. I am however hesitant to make a reccomendation to investors based on this data alone. I would reccommend selecting a few more months at random and observing their temperature trends to complete the picture that's been painted. Furthermore, I would suggest looking at other weather factors. Percipitaion should not be ignored in looking at opening a surf shop. I would also look at cloud cover as a determining factor. December may be warm enough to surf, but if it's cloudy or even raining that may impact business. None of these queries would matter as much as the competition already in existence on the island. It's no secret that people like to surf in Hawaii. I would want to look at the existing surf shops on the island, look at their pricing vs our prospective price model, and try to identify one) are we in an over-saturated market with too many surf shops, two) is our model competetive financially to be attractive to the consumer while still maintaining profits, and three) is a surf and ice cream shop "unique enough" to draw the crowd for board rentals, lessons, and ice cream. While I do believe this shop could be successful under the right model, more work is to be done before we can paint a clear picture of this model.
